My approach to running a link blog Simon Willison’s Weblog Subscribe Sponsored by: Microsoft Agent projects stall between demo and production. Microsoft&#x27;s MVP checklist closes that gap. Try it My approach to running a link blog 22nd December 2024 I started running a basic link blog on this domain back in November 2003 —publishing links (which I called “blogmarks”) with a title, URL, short snippet of commentary and a “via” link where appropriate. So far I’ve published 7,607 link blog posts and counting. In April of this year I finally upgraded my link blog to support Markdown , allowing me to expand my link blog into something with a lot more room. The way I use my link blog has evolved substantially in the eight months since then. I’m going to describe the informal set of guidelines I’ve set myself for how I link blog, in the hope that it might encourage other people to give this a try themselves. Writing about things I’ve found Trying to add something extra The technology More people should do this Writing about things I’ve found Back in November 2022 I wrote What to blog about , which started with this: You should start a blog. Having your own little corner of the internet is good for the soul! The point of that article was to emphasize that blogging doesn’t have to be about unique insights. The value is in writing frequently and having something to show for it over time—worthwhile even if you don’t attract much of an audience (or any audience at all). In that article I proposed two categories of content that are low stakes and high value: things I learned and descriptions of my projects . I realize now that link blogging deserves to be included a third category of low stakes, high value writing. We could think of that category as things I’ve found . That’s the purpose of my link blog: it’s an ongoing log of things I’ve found—effectively a combination of public bookmarks and my own thoughts and commentary on why those things are interesting. Trying to add something extra When I first started link blogging I would often post a link with a one sentence summary of the linked content, and maybe a tiny piece of opinionated commentary. After I upgraded my link blog to support additional markup (links, images, quotations) I decided to be more ambitious. Here are some of the things I try to do: I always include the names of the people who created the content I am linking to, if I can figure that out. Credit is really important, and it’s also useful for myself because I can later search for someone’s name and find other interesting things they have created that I linked to in the past. If I’ve linked to someone’s work three or more times I also try to notice and upgrade them to a dedicated tag . I try to add something extra . My goal with any link blog post is that if you read both my post and the source material you’ll have an enhanced experience over if you read just the source material itself. Ideally I’d like you to take something useful away even if you don’t follow the link itself. This can be a slightly tricky balance: I don’t want to steal attention from the authors and plagiarize their message. Generally I’ll try to find some key idea that’s worth emphasizing. Slightly cynically, I may try to capture that idea as backup against the original source vanishing from the internet. Link rot is real! My most basic version of this is trying to provide context as to why I think this particular thing is worth reading—especially important for longer content. A good recent example is my post about Anthropic’s Building effective agents essay the other day. I might tie it together to other similar concepts, including things I’ve written about in the past, for example linking Prompt caching with Claude to my coverage of Context caching for Google Gemini . If part of the material is a video, I might quote a snippet of the transcript (often extracted using MacWhisper) like I did in this post about Anthropic’s Clio . A lot of stuff I link to involves programming. I’ll often include a direct link to relevant code , using the GitHub feature where I can link to a snippet as-of a particular commit. One example is the fetch-rss.py link in this post . I’m liberal with quotations . Finding and quoting a paragraph that captures the key theme of a post is a very quick and effective way to summarize it and help people decide if it’s worth reading the whole thing. My post on François Chollet’s o3 ARC-AGI analysis is an example of that. If the original author reads my post, I want them to feel good about it . I know from my own experience that often when you publish something online the silence can be deafening. Knowing that someone else read, appreciated, understood and then shared your work can be very pleasant. A slightly self-involved concern I have is that I like to prove that I’ve read it . This is more for me than for anyone else: I don’t like to recommend something if I’ve not read that thing myself, and sticking in a detail that shows I read past the first paragraph helps keep me honest about that. I’ve started leaning more into screenshots and even short video or audio clips. A screenshot can be considered a visual quotation—I’ll sometimes snap these from interesting frames in a YouTube video or live demo associated with the content I’m linking to. I used a screenshot of the Clay debugger in my post about Clay . There are a lot of great link blogs out there, but the one that has influenced me the most in how I approach my own is John Gruber’s Daring Fireball . I really like the way he mixes commentary, quotations and value-added relevant information. The technology The technology behind my link blog is probably the least interesting thing about it. It’s part of my simonwillisonblog Django application—the main model is called Blogmark and it inherits from a BaseModel defining things like tags and draft modes that are shared across my other types of content (entries and quotations). I use the Django Admin to create and edit entries, configured here . The most cumbersome part of link blogging for me right now is images. I convert these into smaller JPEGs using a tiny custom tool I built ( with Claude ), then upload them to my static.simonwillison.net S3 bucket using Transmit and drop them into my posts using a Markdown image reference. I generate a first draft of the alt text using a Claude Project with these custom instructions , then usually make a few changes before including that in the markup. At some point I’ll wire together a UI that makes this process a little smoother. That static.simonwillison.net bucket is then served via Cloudflare’s free tier, which means I effectively never have to think about the cost of serving up those image files. I wrote up a TIL about Building a blog in Django a while ago which describes a similar setup to the one I’m using for my link blog, including how the RSS feed works (using Django’s syndication framework ). The most technically interesting component is my search feature . I wrote about how that works in Implementing faceted search with Django and PostgreSQL —the most recent code for that can be found in blog/search.py on GitHub. One of the most useful small enhancements I added was draft mode , which lets me assign a URL to an item and preview it in my browser without publishing it to the world. This really helps when I am editing posts on my mobile phone as it gives me a reliable preview so I can check for any markup mistakes. I also send out an approximately weekly email newsletter version of my blog, for people who want to subscribe in their inbox. This is a straight copy of content from my blog—Substack doesn’t have an API for this but their editor does accept copy and paste, so I have a delightful digital duct tape solution for assembling the newsletter which I described in Semi-automating a Substack newsletter with an Observable notebook . More people should do this I posted this on Bluesky last night : I wish people would post more links to interesting things I feel like Twitter and LinkedIn and Instagram and TikTok have pushed a lot of people out of the habit of doing that, by penalizing shared links in the various “algorithms” Bluesky doesn’t have that misfeature, thankfully! (In my ideal world everyone would get their own link blog too, but sharing links on Bluesky and Mastodon is almost as good) Sharing interesting links with commentary is a low effort, high value way to contribute to internet life at large. Posted 22nd December 2024 at 6:37 pm Follow me on Mastodon , Bluesky , Twitter or subscribe to my newsletter More recent articles sqlite-utils 4.0rc1 adds migrations and nested transactions - 21st June 2026 Datasette Apps: Host custom HTML applications inside Datasette - 18th June 2026 GLM-5.2 is probably the most powerful text-only open weights LLM - 17th June 2026 This is My approach to running a link blog by Simon Willison, posted on 22nd December 2024 . Part of series How I blog What to blog about - Nov. 6, 2022, 5:05 p.m. Semi-automating a Substack newsletter with an Observable notebook - April 4, 2023, 5:55 p.m. A homepage redesign for my blog&#x27;s 22nd birthday - June 12, 2024, 7:59 p.m. My approach to running a link blog - Dec. 22, 2024, 6:37 p.m. How I automate my Substack newsletter with content from my blog - Nov. 19, 2025, 10 p.m. Adding TILs, releases, museums, tools and research to my blog - Feb. 20, 2026, 11:47 p.m. blogging 123 django 588 django-admin 32 john-gruber 41 Next: Trying out QvQ - Qwen&#x27;s new visual reasoning model Previous: Live blog: the 12th day of OpenAI - Early evals for OpenAI o3 Monthly briefing Sponsor me for $10/month and get a curated email digest of the month's most important LLM developments. Pay me to send you less! Sponsor subscribe Disclosures Colophon 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
